How we sell and position individual products now (#16813)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/marketing/how-we-position-and-sell/feature-flags.md

---
title: Feature flags
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
---

> **Owner:** Team

## The unique belief (in terms of feature flags)

> Feature flags started as deployment safety nets — a way to ship code slowly without exposing too much to users. In the [product autonomy loop](/blog/self-driving-product), they're the mechanism through which agents ship code safely. PostHog Code's `instrument-feature-flags` skill wraps every change it opens in a flag by default. The enricher shows stale flags inline in your editor. When an agent ships a fix, the flag is the rollout control.

Reviewer: _> PostHog Code's `instrument-feature-flags` skill wraps every change it opens in a flag by default._ 
Might be worth making the distinction that this skills is invoked by code changes related to _executable_ behavior (a new UI component, API call, algorithm change), not prose. For example, adding a blog post is a change, but not a feature.

Author: ```suggestion
Feature flags started as deployment safety nets — a way to ship code slowly without exposing too much to users. In the [product autonomy loop](/blog/self-driving-product), they're the mechanism through which agents ship code safely. PostHog Code's `instrument-feature-flags` skill wraps relevant changes it opens in a flag by default. The enricher shows stale flags inline in your editor. When an agent ships a fix, the flag is the rollout control.
```

**Flags aren't just for humans anymore. They're the guardrails that let agents work autonomously and safely.**

> Without flags, agents can't ship incrementally. Without incremental shipping, agents can't evaluate safely. Flags are the atomic unit of the autonomy loop.

Reviewer: _>Flags are the atomic unit of the autonomy loop._ 
Too much jargon? I'm not sure what this means

Author: ```suggestion
Without flags, agents can't ship incrementally. Without incremental shipping, agents can't evaluate safely. 
```

- Enterprises with complex governance requirements — multi-stage approvals, change management workflows, compliance-grade audit trails — LaunchDarkly Enterprise is more mature here.
- Marketing teams who need non-technical flag management with visual editors and no-code targeting.
- Teams who need experimentation without product analytics — Optimizely or VWO handle that use case more simply.

## Messaging

### Elevator pitch

PostHog Feature Flags support boolean flags, multivariate variants, JSON payloads for config changes without deploys, and local evaluation for <50ms latency. Every flag is queryable alongside your analytics and session replay — filter any insight by which flag variant a user saw. And every flag PostHog Code ships is automatically wired into the analytics that measures whether it worked.

LaunchDarkly manages flags. PostHog manages flags *and* shows you the impact of every rollout.

### Message 1: Flags that agents write and the enricher can read

**Problem:** Coding agents that ship without feature flags are unsafe. A bad change rolls out to 100% of users with no kill switch. Evaluating whether the change worked requires manually querying separate analytics.

> **Solution:** PostHog Code can add flags automatically to every PR it opens. The enricher detects existing flags in your codebase and shows rollout percentage, staleness status, and flag evaluation inline — without leaving your editor. Close the loop: agent ships with flag → analytics measures impact → agent evaluates → agent removes stale flag.

Reviewer: _> PostHog Code can add flags automatically to every PR it opens_

>Same as above. Not _every_ PR, only relevant ones.

A bit odd to mention the enricher here without more context. Maybe link to the docs for that?

**Supporting features:**
- PostHog Code `instrument-feature-flags` skill: adds flags to PRs automatically
- Enricher: detects `isFeatureEnabled` calls and shows live rollout data inline
- Stale flag detection built into the enricher
- MCP exposes flag state to any connected agent runtime

### Message 2: No per-developer pricing

**Problem:** LaunchDarkly charges $10-20/developer/month. For a 50-person engineering team, that's $6,000-12,000/year before you've run a single experiment. Seat pricing punishes team growth.

> **Solution:** PostHog charges per flag evaluation, not per developer. The first 1 million evaluations per month are free. A team of 50 engineers pays the same price as a team of 5.

Reviewer: Nice!
